# PyGEM-scripts
Python and other scripts that are used for running calibration, simulation, post-processing, etc.  These scripts are meant to be used with the PyGEM repository (https://github.com/drounce/PyGEM) that has all the classes and functions and can be installed via PyPI.  Note that some of the scripts in this repository are hard-coded to specific output or datasets and thus may contain additional scripts that are not required for the typical user. The goal is to remove these over time such that all codes will work for any user; however, this is a work in progress. The primary scripts that we suggest using will be described in this here.

The Python Glacier Evolution Model (PyGEM) is an open-source glacier evolution model coded in Python that models the transient evolution of glaciers. Each glacier is modeled independently using a monthly timestep. PyGEM has a modular framework that allows different schemes to be used for model calibration or model physics (e.g., climatic mass balance, glacier dynamics).  In the newest version under development, PyGEM is working to become compatible with the Open Global Glacier Model (OGGM; https://oggm.org/).

Manual: Details concerning the model physics, installation, and running the model may be found here: https://github.com/drounce/PyGEM/wiki; however, given the rapid pace of development at present, please contact the lead developer (David Rounce) for additional documents as we will be updating the wiki soon.

Usage: PyGEM is meant for large-scale glacier evolution modeling.  PyGEM is still under active development.  Therefore, if you would like to run the model independently, it is suggested to install Release PyGEMv0.2.0.  However, given the major changes to the code, this release of the code is not being actively supported anymore.  We therefore highly encourage you to contact the lead developer (David Rounce) if you're interested in using the version that is actively being developed.

Contributing: We welcome contributions from any interested parties and are in the process of outlining how to best incorporate outside contributions. For the time being, if you would like to contribute to the development of the model, please contact David Rounce (drounce@cmu.edu).

Credits: If using PyGEM for scientific applications, please cite the following:
Rounce, D.R., Hock, R., Maussion, F., Hugonnet, R., Kochtitzky, W., Huss, M., Berthier, E., Brinkerhoff, D., Compagno, L., Copland, L., Farinotti, D., Menounos, B., and McNabb, R.W. “Global glacier change in the 21st century: Every increase in temperature matters”, Science, 379(6627), pp. 78-83, (2023), doi:10.1126/science.abo1324.
